events/deploy24.md, before:

---
date: 2024-11-08
---

# DEPLOY/24

## Venue

- [x] Secure the Social Hive for the weekend
- [ ] Reserve breakout rooms for the weekend
  - [ ] LS 103
  - [ ] LS 209
  - [ ] LS 210
  - [ ] LS 303
  - [ ] UC 402/403
  - [ ] UC 4th Floor Lounge

## Judges

We want to have as many CS faculty members as possible this year.

A checkbox (`[x]`) means the professor has agreed. Partially checked (`[/]`) means they've been asked but are checking their schedule or something and will get back to us. Crossed (`[-]`) means they are unavailable. Not checked (`[ ]`) means we haven't asked.

- [ ] Chris Brooks
- [ ] Phil Peterson
- [x] John Cromwell
- [/] Greg Benson
- [x] Mehmet Emre
- [-] Sophie Engle
- [ ] Paul Haskell
- [ ] Olga Karpenko
- [ ] Beste Yuksel

### Extra credit

Last year, we took the Phil position re: extra credit: the incentive for coming to the hackathon should be the experience, not point scrubbing in classes.

For this year, John from E&I gave an interesting counter to that: yes, people should be in it for reasons non-transactional, *but* at the end of the day, we all have things to do.

Suppose a student has an upcoming midterm, a project due, etc. They're most excited about DEPLOY/24, but with no *guaranteed* exchange for their time, they might not be so inclined to attend. The idea is that extra credit would bump it up on their list at least a bit.

At minimum, we can ask professors if they'd be willing to provide students who attend extra credit. After the event, we will provide participating professors with a list of students who attend *on presentation day*, as a fair middle ground.

## Prizes

The general consensus — both on leadership and our sponsors — is that our prizes for last year's winners were a bit...generous:

```plaintext
1st Place    >> $100
                Semester access to club AI resources
                Discord Nitro
                Recognition on compsigh platforms
2nd Place    >> $50
                Discord Nitro
                Recognition on compsigh platforms
3rd Place    >> $25
                Recognition on compsigh platforms
PPL'S CHOICE >> Cat-shaped pillow 🐱
```

We agreed during our DEPLOY/23 debrief that the top-three format + people's choice is a good one. The big coefficient here is that these prizes are per winning team *member*. So, for first place, it's not $200 from us, it's $800.

Some ideas for this year's prizes:

- John from E&I has generously offered $500 in microgrants for the first place team. This helps incentivize DEPLOY/24 projects to live on past the event.
- In general, cash prizes are hard because there is a lot of bureaucracy around getting those reimbursed. We can take the L out of our budget if it would make a big incentive difference.
- We can scrap Discord Nitro.
- Something physical?
- Trophies in the shape of the event logo would be dope.

## Sponsors

In total, DEPLOY/23 cost us $2,066.21, with 52 participants registered. Of course, the situation with prizes and catering likely differ, but scaling that up to 80+, we will need some help.

A checkbox (`[x]`) means the sponsor has agreed to help fund the event. Partially checked (`[/]`) means they've been asked and we haven't heard back. Crossed (`[-]`) means they are unable to support the event. Not checked (`[ ]`) means we haven't asked.

- [x] CS Department
- [x] E&I IDEA Initiative
- [ ] GitHub
- [/] Raycast
- [/] Resend
- [ ] Vercel
- [ ] Wooting

## Point system and rubric

Last year, we operated on a closed-source rubric, only sharing:

> Projects will be evaluated on **Craft & Polish**, **Presentation & Delivery**, and **Ambition & Technical Complexity**.
>
> Here are some tips based on what judges will be looking for:
> 
> - Be creative and engaging — see some ideas above
> - Clearly define the problem (and target users for whom) you sought to solve
> - Really take some time to prepare. This is one of the reasons there is an hour between the submission deadline and check-in!

### Point formula

Our original point formula from DEPLOY/23:

```plaintext
(average of judge evaluations) +
(referrals per team member) +
(number of different majors on the team)
```

The weighting on this was scuffed — teams that had any more than two referrals had an outsized advantage, and we ended up having to adjust on presentation day.

Here are the changes to the point formula and calculation for DEPLOY/24:

- We will use solely judge evaluations for calculating a team's score. External factors — like referrals or event attendance — will not impact a team's score.
- Our criteria rating range is going from 1 to 10, to 1 (barely met, if at all) to 4 (met well, if not exceeded).
- Judges will not be able to input their own offset `-2` to `+2` value, and must use only our criteria and rating range.
- Rather than calculating the *average* of judge criteria ratings across *categories*, all criteria will be *weighted equally*, and calculated as *sums*.
- We are removing the criterion, "The team presented themselves as prepared, confident, and engaged."
- We will open-source this year's rubric — we have no reason to be concerned participants will "game the system"; isn't that what we want? :)

### Basic qualifications

If any of these are lacking in a team's presentation, organizers and/or judges will reach out to the team in question for elaboration. Extenuating circumstances will be evaluated case-by-case, but if a team proves unable to remedy the situation, they are subject to disqualification.

- All teammates (as when they registered by the team declaration deadline) are present and on-stage.
- All teammates' roles and contributions are clearly articulated.
- Where applicable, the project is open-source or is otherwise publicly accessible.

### Criteria we're *not* looking to evaluate

- Innovation: whether or not a judge has heard of it doesn't make it innovative. Also, we shouldn't penalize teams for doing something *better* that another product or service does.
- Completeness: making mistakes & learning from them is one of the key benefits in a scrappy, experimental environment. As long as teams demonstrate that growth, all is well.

### Score calculation

- Criteria are weighted equally.
- Criteria are rated by judges on a linear scale, from 1 (barely met, if at all) to 4 (met well, if not exceeded).
- Each criteron's rating is added to a running total to represent the judge's evaluation for a team.
- The average of all judges' evaluation totals for a given team represents the team's total score.

### Criteria we *are* evaluating

Craft & Polish:

- Despite the time limit, the team showcased their effort in creating a polished solution, with attention to detail and user experience.

Presentation & Delivery:

- The team presented their project in a creative and engaging way.
- The team defined the problem they sought to solve, identifying a clear and focused target user, need, and context.
- The team showcased their prototype solution, mentioning whether or not they accomplished their goal. If the project was incomplete, the team mentioned what worked, what didn't, and how the team would continue to develop the project.

Ambition & Technical Complexity:

- The team took on an ambitious challenge, through the scale & scope of the problem, their tech stack, or otherwise impressive medium.

## Other

Things we need to take care of, ordered by ascending complexity:

- [ ] Catering
- [ ] Trailer
- [ ] Promo & outreach
- [ ] Landing page & platform

Also:

- Organizers & ground team
- Photo & video
- Broadcast
- A/V
- Merch
- Trophies
- Full agenda with deadlines and activities
- Look through DEPLOY/23 todos and see what we can add here
- [Request mention in the Phoenix](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScWKWlOVSR_ml85Y0-NKSXUdYFdP2S9aRZj1sUvhh_3z-FO1A/viewform)

Idea from Edward and Gursh: if we do beginner/advanced categories type shit we should use different criteria for evaluation

## Links

- [DEPLOY/23 Debrief & Notes for DEPLOY/24 (Notion)](https://www.notion.so/compsigh/DEPLOY-23-Debrief-Notes-for-DEPLOY-24-41fc140f771f4e84aadd7a8b743edccd)
- [DEPLOY/24 Figma](https://www.figma.com/design/VpUYrCmMWZ4QgTRxdRYhfz/24?node-id=3-21&t=mqVHo6c71tMPo0hs-1)

Commit message:

Add DEPLOY/24 grade level weighting system idea

events/deploy24.md, after:

---
date: 2024-11-08
---

# DEPLOY/24

## Venue

- [x] Secure the Social Hive for the weekend
- [ ] Reserve breakout rooms for the weekend
  - [ ] LS 103
  - [ ] LS 209
  - [ ] LS 210
  - [ ] LS 303
  - [ ] UC 402/403
  - [ ] UC 4th Floor Lounge

## Judges

We want to have as many CS faculty members as possible this year.

A checkbox (`[x]`) means the professor has agreed. Partially checked (`[/]`) means they've been asked but are checking their schedule or something and will get back to us. Crossed (`[-]`) means they are unavailable. Not checked (`[ ]`) means we haven't asked.

- [ ] Chris Brooks
- [ ] Phil Peterson
- [x] John Cromwell
- [/] Greg Benson
- [x] Mehmet Emre
- [-] Sophie Engle
- [ ] Paul Haskell
- [ ] Olga Karpenko
- [ ] Beste Yuksel

### Extra credit

Last year, we took the Phil position re: extra credit: the incentive for coming to the hackathon should be the experience, not point scrubbing in classes.

For this year, John from E&I gave an interesting counter to that: yes, people should be in it for reasons non-transactional, *but* at the end of the day, we all have things to do.

Suppose a student has an upcoming midterm, a project due, etc. They're most excited about DEPLOY/24, but with no *guaranteed* exchange for their time, they might not be so inclined to attend. The idea is that extra credit would bump it up on their list at least a bit.

At minimum, we can ask professors if they'd be willing to provide students who attend extra credit. After the event, we will provide participating professors with a list of students who attend *on presentation day*, as a fair middle ground.

## Prizes

The general consensus — both on leadership and our sponsors — is that our prizes for last year's winners were a bit...generous:

```plaintext
1st Place    >> $100
                Semester access to club AI resources
                Discord Nitro
                Recognition on compsigh platforms
2nd Place    >> $50
                Discord Nitro
                Recognition on compsigh platforms
3rd Place    >> $25
                Recognition on compsigh platforms
PPL'S CHOICE >> Cat-shaped pillow 🐱
```

We agreed during our DEPLOY/23 debrief that the top-three format + people's choice is a good one. The big coefficient here is that these prizes are per winning team *member*. So, for first place, it's not $200 from us, it's $800.

Some ideas for this year's prizes:

- John from E&I has generously offered $500 in microgrants for the first place team. This helps incentivize DEPLOY/24 projects to live on past the event.
- In general, cash prizes are hard because there is a lot of bureaucracy around getting those reimbursed. We can take the L out of our budget if it would make a big incentive difference.
- We can scrap Discord Nitro.
- Something physical?
- Trophies in the shape of the event logo would be dope.

## Sponsors

In total, DEPLOY/23 cost us $2,066.21, with 52 participants registered. Of course, the situation with prizes and catering likely differ, but scaling that up to 80+, we will need some help.

A checkbox (`[x]`) means the sponsor has agreed to help fund the event. Partially checked (`[/]`) means they've been asked and we haven't heard back. Crossed (`[-]`) means they are unable to support the event. Not checked (`[ ]`) means we haven't asked.

- [x] CS Department
- [x] E&I IDEA Initiative
- [ ] GitHub
- [/] Raycast
- [/] Resend
- [ ] Vercel
- [ ] Wooting

## Point system and rubric

Last year, we operated on a closed-source rubric, only sharing:

> Projects will be evaluated on **Craft & Polish**, **Presentation & Delivery**, and **Ambition & Technical Complexity**.
>
> Here are some tips based on what judges will be looking for:
> 
> - Be creative and engaging — see some ideas above
> - Clearly define the problem (and target users for whom) you sought to solve
> - Really take some time to prepare. This is one of the reasons there is an hour between the submission deadline and check-in!

### Point formula

Our original point formula from DEPLOY/23:

```plaintext
(average of judge evaluations) +
(referrals per team member) +
(number of different majors on the team)
```

The weighting on this was scuffed — teams that had any more than two referrals had an outsized advantage, and we ended up having to adjust on presentation day.

Here are the changes to the point formula and calculation for DEPLOY/24:

- We will use solely judge evaluations for calculating a team's score. External factors — like referrals or event attendance — will not impact a team's score.
- Our criteria rating range is going from 1 to 10, to 1 (barely met, if at all) to 4 (met well, if not exceeded).
- Judges will not be able to input their own offset `-2` to `+2` value, and must use only our criteria and rating range.
- Rather than calculating the *average* of judge criteria ratings across *categories*, all criteria will be *weighted equally*, and calculated as *sums*.
- We are removing the criterion, "The team presented themselves as prepared, confident, and engaged."
- We will open-source this year's rubric — we have no reason to be concerned participants will "game the system"; isn't that what we want? :)

### Basic qualifications

If any of these are lacking in a team's presentation, organizers and/or judges will reach out to the team in question for elaboration. Extenuating circumstances will be evaluated case-by-case, but if a team proves unable to remedy the situation, they are subject to disqualification.

- All teammates (as when they registered by the team declaration deadline) are present and on-stage.
- All teammates' roles and contributions are clearly articulated.
- Where applicable, the project is open-source or is otherwise publicly accessible.

### Criteria we're *not* looking to evaluate

- Innovation: whether or not a judge has heard of it doesn't make it innovative. Also, we shouldn't penalize teams for doing something *better* that another product or service does.
- Completeness: making mistakes & learning from them is one of the key benefits in a scrappy, experimental environment. As long as teams demonstrate that growth, all is well.

### Score calculation

- Criteria are weighted equally.
- Criteria are rated by judges on a linear scale, from 1 (barely met, if at all) to 4 (met well, if not exceeded).
- Each criteron's rating is added to a running total to represent the judge's evaluation for a team.
- The average of all judges' evaluation totals for a given team represents the team's total score.

### Criteria we *are* evaluating

Craft & Polish:

- Despite the time limit, the team showcased their effort in creating a polished solution, with attention to detail and user experience.

Presentation & Delivery:

- The team presented their project in a creative and engaging way.
- The team defined the problem they sought to solve, identifying a clear and focused target user, need, and context.
- The team showcased their prototype solution, mentioning whether or not they accomplished their goal. If the project was incomplete, the team mentioned what worked, what didn't, and how the team would continue to develop the project.

Ambition & Technical Complexity:

- The team took on an ambitious challenge, through the scale & scope of the problem, their tech stack, or otherwise impressive medium.

### Grade level weighting

To balance the fact we have participants from all grade levels, one idea is to introduce a weighting system that scales by average grade level on a team. e.g.:

- Average 4th-year team: `1.00x` multiplier: `16.0` → `16.0` out of 20 points
- Average 3rd-year team: `1.10x` multiplier: `16.0` → `17.6` out of 20 points
- Average 2nd-year team: `1.15x` multiplier: `16.0` → `18.4` out of 20 points
- Average 1st-year team: `1.20x` multiplier: `16.0` → `19.2` out of 20 points

So, a team composed of a freshman, sophomore, junior, and senior = `1.20x + 1.15x + 1.10x + 1.00x = 4.45 / 4 = 1.1125x`. If that team scored `16.0`, it would be bumped up to a `17.8`.

This would absolve the need for any beginner/advanced team brackets or different evaluation criteria.

## Other

Things we need to take care of, ordered by ascending complexity:

- [ ] Catering
- [ ] Trailer
- [ ] Promo & outreach
- [ ] Landing page & platform

Also:

- Organizers & ground team
- Photo & video
- Broadcast
- A/V
- Merch
- Trophies
- Full agenda with deadlines and activities
- Look through DEPLOY/23 todos and see what we can add here
- [Request mention in the Phoenix](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScWKWlOVSR_ml85Y0-NKSXUdYFdP2S9aRZj1sUvhh_3z-FO1A/viewform)

## Links

- [DEPLOY/23 Debrief & Notes for DEPLOY/24 (Notion)](https://www.notion.so/compsigh/DEPLOY-23-Debrief-Notes-for-DEPLOY-24-41fc140f771f4e84aadd7a8b743edccd)
- [DEPLOY/24 Figma](https://www.figma.com/design/VpUYrCmMWZ4QgTRxdRYhfz/24?node-id=3-21&t=mqVHo6c71tMPo0hs-1)
